hi guys hopefully all here doing well
today I'm going to show you how to make
a simple weeknight staple and that is
just a simple meatloaf we're gonna do
both a beef and a turkey version and in
the midst of all of that I'm going to
show you also how to cut a recipe in
half so for those of you who have
smaller families or it's just a couple
you can make a smaller meatloaf and you
don't have to worry about making a big
two-pound meatloaf for just two people
or maybe even four check it out see if
you like it and if I need to I can also
do a video on how I cut recipes in half
if you guys think it's necessary but
take a look first off we're going to
start the recipe by dicing some bell
peppers and onions and they were going
to saute them off and a little bit of
olive oil cook the onions and the bell
peppers for about five to eight minutes
or until the onions are nice and
translucent and just before they get
done we're going to add our chopped
garlic now you're not going to see that
happen because I'm going to show you how
to save his recipe regardless of an
absent mind the next thing we're going
to add is our spices I'm adding some
paprika and some dried thyme this is
your chance to use some of those dried
herbs that probably need to be used
anyway so go ahead and take the
opportunity to do that these two work
really well together in this recipe and
as soon as they hit the hot oil you can
smell them immediately this is a good
way to always wake up your dried herbs
now as far as ground beef we're going to
be using ground chuck and that means
it's 80/20 80% meat and 20% fat which is
going to give you a great moist result
for our meal
let's talk about what goes inside the
meatloaf I'm going to be using some
panko breadcrumbs you can use whatever
breadcrumbs you like I'm going to be
using some heavy cream but you could
also use milk we have a beaten egg and
I'm also going to put in some
worchestershire sauce which if you don't
have you can add some steak sauce which
is a nice substitute for that I'm going
to be adding salt and pepper to taste
and of course I'm going to add some
Grand Diamond all-purpose seasoning
which you can get at Gd seasoning calm
remember this recipe you can use any
type of seasoning you want again look in
your cupboard and use what you have
the last ingredient that I'm going to
add is some beef broth that I had on
hand and I just wanted to add a little
bit to the meat just because I was being
a little extra but this is optional on
the recipe you do not have to add beef
broth the whole point of us sauteing the
onions and peppers first was to not only
just cook them but give them a few
minutes to cool about 10 minutes and
after they've cooled then you can go
ahead and finally add them to the
meatloaf mixture just mix the meatloaf
mixture just until it comes together you
don't want to overwork the meatloaf once
everything is thoroughly mixed then
we're going to go ahead and give it a
taste how we're going to do that we're
going to make a small patty and that's a
way of checking what the meatloaf is
going to taste like without having to
wait to bake the whole thing what you're
going to do is take that patty turn
right back around and put it in that
skillet where we saute the onions and
the peppers
once it's done give the patty a taste
and then adjust your seasonings to your
liking now remember I said I forgot the
garlic earlier that patty is what
reminded me that I have forgotten it so
I went ahead and saute it off about
three to four cloves of garlic and I was
ready to move forward now we're ready to
bake off our meatloaf so we're just
going to take the meat mixture and shape
it into a nice loaf in a baking dish I'm
using a nine by eleven you can use a
nine by thirteen whatever you have and
shape it accordingly as you can see my
meatloaf the way is shaped yours may be
a little longer or a little shorter
that's why when making meatloaf the
times may vary so what we're going to do
is we're going to bake at 350 degrees
until an instant-read thermometer reads
160 degrees
start checking the internal temperature
of the meatloaf right at the 60 minute
mark you should be close to being done
by that time so just for kicks I wanted
to show you guys a couple of things yes
you can cut a recipe in half especially
one like this it's a meatloaf so you
would take every ingredient and you will
cut the measurement in half to get a
one-pound meatloaf the second thing I
need you to know when you're making a
turkey loaf is that turkey is very lean
and supposed to be the ground turkey I'm
working with here is 93% lean so that
means when I sauteed the peppers and the
onions I used way more olive oil that
way I can return it back into the turkey
loaf and I use chicken broth for
moisture also as far as the glaze is
going to be a mixture of Worchester
sauce dijon mustard cayenne pepper and
ketchup we're just gonna whisk back
together but it's only gonna go on top
of the meat lows at the last 15 to 20
minutes of the cooking time so we're in
the homestretch now we got 15 and 20
minutes more cooking time so I'm just
going to take our ketchup sauce and just
pour it right over the meatloaf and just
spread it out evenly
and the same steps apply for the turkey
loaf
once the beef meatloaf is done you're
going to see how much fat has rendered
out and you can actually use a couple of
tablespoons of that fat as a base to
make a roux in a skillet so that you can
make gravy if you wanted to pour gravy
over the meatloaf but I just prefer some
steamed vegetables and some mashed
potatoes or rice and you're good to go
so you want to treat this meatloaf like
any other large piece of meat and you
want to remove it from the cooking dish
put it on a plate and then let it rest
before you cut into it I don't know why
it's taking me so long to put this
recipe up but everybody needs a good
meatloaf recipe this is your basic one
that has lots of flavor and it's easy to
make you can even prep the meatloaf the
day before and then cook it off when you
get home from work and then for those of
you who may want to bypass the beef
option and go with the turkey it turns
out just as moist and flavorful and even
more figure friendly thank you guys so
much for joining me you know I
appreciate it when you come hang out
don't forget both of these recipes will
be found in the description and you can
find them at GDC be calm and I'll see
you guys next time